at least 24 Israeli soldiers have been
killed in Gaza 21 of them in a single
attack prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
has ordered an
investigation it's the single worst day
for the Army since its ground Invasion
began in late October
552 soldiers have been killed since the
start of the war that includes 2117
during the ground offensive that began
at the end of October another 11 were
killed in exchanges of fire with
Hezbollah that's near the border with
Lebanon Israel estimates more than 1,000
troops have been wounded in battles with
Palestinian Fighters and over 200 are in
serious condition Israel says
1,139 people were killed during the
Hamas attacks on October the 7th more
than half of them civilians nearly 3,000
Israelis were
[Music]
wounded Andreas C is a senior lecturer
at King's College uh King's College
London School of security studies you're
joining us from London Andreas is there
a lesson to be learned here for for the
Israeli
military good afternoon yes I mean there
is unfortunately so far the Israeli
public has somewhat been shielded from
the real cost of this War I mean the
burden of of warfare the operation
burden has been shifted by the Israeli
military onto the civilian population in
Gaza and what we see now is that as the
Israelis are operating in the rear as
this war is kind of coming to a
stalemate it seems that the Israeli
armed forces are now extremely
vulnerable also for targeting and it
also shows that Hamas has not been uh
defeated and the costs of War are still
there and they're likely going to rise
and the Israeli public will be ever more
exposed to these cost of War uh and a
single incident such as this in a fairly
small country like Israel will have
quite a lot of impact on the on the
collective psyche of Israelis and put
pressure on the government to bring this
war to an end and potentially accelerate
negotiations Benjamin Netanyahu
responded to this by tweeting quote we
will not stop until absolute Victory
does this goal of absolute Victory still
make sense from a military
standpoint no absolutely not I mean I've
say I've been saying this for over three
months there is no military solution to
this issue and to this conflict the root
cause is a political one it's a
counterinsurgency operation has to be
seen as such if they want to defeat
Hamas they need to defeat the movement
they need to do this politically they
need to offer something in return to the
Palestinians collectively not just to
Hamas and from a military point of view
there's literally nothing that can be
done um we've seen the complete
annihilation of the physical
infrastructure of Gaza and still Hamas
is fighting still Hamas has the
capability to fire Rockets even if
somewhat in a in a restrained way uh but
we see Hamas operatives still running
around Gaza still being able to avoid
open fire fights appearing and
disappearing shooting from the rear
creating ambushes and as we've seen in
that incident overnight being able to
Target Israeli Soldiers with impunity
and then dis appearing again what we
also know from the Israelis is that for
the most part Hamas Fighters are
avoiding open battles and open
firefights even in the urban environment
uh and hence why Israelis have the
Israeli numbers of killed uh soldiers
has been have been fairly low while the
number of wounded soldiers also severely
wounded soldier has been quite High
because what we see is that Israeli
soldiers are being attacked from the
rear in ambushes booby traps um and and
this situation is likely going to
continue with hundreds of miles of
tunnel systems that the is military so
far has been unable to destroy and will
most likely never be able to destroy and
hence they're in this kind of situation
in an unwinable War uh where they can't
get out of okay so you say the war is
unwinable they won't be able to destroy
Hamas there is no military solution yet
that is exactly what Israel continues to
pursue so so in that case when you game
this out where do you see this
going well nobody really knows we have
expected that in December we would move
to a second phase low intensity
stabilization operation which could last
over a year that was the idea from the
IDF we've seen some movement of and
rotation of troops have been based in
Gaza but for the most part the
operations continue with the same
intensity intensity for the civilian
population in Gaza one has to say um and
the problem that we that we see is that
you have these Israeli soldiers
wandering around somewhat aimlessly on a
battlefield in a war that they can't win
uh where there is a political leadership
particularly netan who doesn't want this
war to stop because he knows it will be
the end of his political career and it's
these kind of political considerations
inside Israel that kind of expose the
IDF as the civilian population in Gaza
to these massive risks and to these
threats and in a in a war that they
can't win and it's now for the
International Community to press on
Israel to also mobilize the public in
Israel to say look this war will not be
winnable it costs you dearly in terms of
blood and treasure and it's in your
interest it's in Israel's interest to
bring this war to an end Andreas King
big your pardon Andreas C senior
lecturer at Kings College London School
of security studies thank you so much
for joining us thank you